 
		  Lua-ification of Hyprland configs | Hyprland     
		                                                                    Get started     Wiki     Forums     Account     Hall of fame     News     Plugins                                       Support us     Install               Lua-ification of Hyprland configs       by Vaxry    April 26, 2026       Hyprland has just undergone the biggest change since our move off of wlroots, and for the
end user, probably even bigger than that.   For 4 years, Hyprland has grown in the amount of features - and expectations. We added more
and more features, on top of a simple config syntax made up by a 17-year-old me in my parents’
basement back in 2021.
It’s obvious that the syntax got ugly. What was a simple  k = v  syntax turned into:       windowrule   = immediate yes, border_size 4, class:^(amongus)$, title:^(sus)$       which starts being unreliable, unreadable, limited and simply cluttered.   With today’s change, no more.   Lua configs   Starting from today on  git , or a future 0.55 release, you will be able to use lua to configure
your Hyprland desktop.   For now, lua is  optional : if you don’t have a  hyprland.lua  config file, your old  hyprland.conf 
will be loaded, business as usual.   However, if you do have one,  hyprland.lua  will be loaded instead. This check is only done once at
startup, so if you launch hyprland with a  .lua  config, it will not load a legacy one unless
you restart Hyprland. The same goes for the reverse.   The lua syntax has been reengineered from the ground up to be more readable, simpler, and more descriptive.
Many hyprlang-specific methods are completely gone, and are replaced by simpler and more intuitive alternatives.   On top of that, we introduced a ton of helpers into lua, with timers, events, callbacks, layout data, and more - allowing
you to do things not even possible without plugins before.   Please check the wiki for full instructions on the new configs.   Old hyprlang syntax   The old hyprlang syntax will continue to be supported for 1 - 2 releases starting from 0.55. After that,
hyprlang will be dropped.   New config features will also not be added to hyprlang anymore.   Hypr* tools   Other hypr* tools will for now continue using hyprlang as their config language provider - most of those tools
are simple in nature and work totally fine with a simple syntax, and do not need a turing-complete
scripting language for their functionality.   Bugs / Feature requests   The lua syntax has been tested by many helpful people from our community, but we can’t do everything - if you
have some problems, bugs, or feature requests, please do not hesitate to open a discussion and suggest
your solution!   Cheers and enjoy, 
vax        More news            July 20, 2026    Hyprland 0.56 has arrived!                      May 18, 2026    5th Ricing Competition starts now!                      May 9, 2026    Hyprland 0.55 is here and you don't want to miss it!                      February 27, 2026    Hyprland 0.54 is upon us!                        Sponsors     Diamond               Gold                    Humans     Vaxry  [ Lead Developer ]      Fufexan    [  Supporting Developer  ]        NotAShelf    [  Community Manager  ]        VDawg    [  Webdesign and dev  ]         and our  fellow contributors        Links     Wiki     Get started     Hall of fame     Forum     Account       Socials                                                  Hyprland is licensed under the BSD 3-Clause "New" or "Revised" License.   The name "Hyprland" and the logo are registered trademarks of Hyprland Development.   © Hyprland Development 2026.   Stay hydrated         
