 
		  Hyprland 0.55 is here and you don't want to miss it! | Hyprland     
		                                                                    Get started     Wiki     Forums     Account     Hall of fame     News     Plugins                                       Support us     Install               Hyprland 0.55 is here and you don't want to miss it!       by Vaxry    May 9, 2026       After quite a long while, Hyprland 0.55 is upon us! This is an enormous update by each
measurable metric - commits, contributors, features and changes.   Highlights   With 0.55, there are tons of changes, let’s bring the highlights first.   Lua configs   As we’ve  announced a while back , the Hyprland config is now done in
Lua. This does not mean your hyprlang config is now broken - it will still work, for a few releases.   The entire wiki has been updated to reflect new Lua configs and you are encouraged to migrate over
to Lua.   User-defined layouts   With Lua, we’ve also added a Layout API for you to define your own layouts directly in the config. Those
layouts can be set globally, per-workspace, per-monitor, etc. and behave just like regular layouts,
except fully controlled by you.      Various scrolling improvements   Scrolling now supports fullscreen windows as part of the tape by default:      As well as a native trackpad gesture via  scroll_move  in lua.   ICC Profiles   You can now load an ICC profile per-output in your config via  icc = "..path.."  in your config for
color accuracy.   Renderer and CM improvements   Hyprland will now use FP16 precision and improved CM pipelines by default for Color Managed displays.
This helps with color accuracy, screensharing, and various color-related things.   Breaking changes   A few config option updates:     dwindle:pseudotile  has been removed as it wasn’t doing anything    decoration:shadow:ignore_window  has been removed (defaults to enabled)    render:cm_fs_passthrough  has been removed, should be automatic with  render:cm_auto_hdr     misc:vfr  moved to  debug:  as it’s a debug variable that should not be changed in prod environments    New stuff and fixes   As usual, tons of goodies:    A bunch of scrolling goodies:  expel ,  consume ,  consume_or_expel , wrapping options, and so on.   A new  auto_consuming  flag for binds   Device tags    confine_pointer  window rule    move_into_or_create_group  for the move dispatcher    rotatesplit  layoutmsg for dwindle   A new live pinch cursor zoom trackpad gesture   A new glow decoration for windows   And much more…    And the usual fixes, way too many to list…   The raw release   As always, if you prefer reading more, check the release on  Github .   Cheers,
vax        More news            July 20, 2026    Hyprland 0.56 has arrived!                      May 18, 2026    5th Ricing Competition starts now!                      April 26, 2026    Lua-ification of Hyprland configs                      February 27, 2026    Hyprland 0.54 is upon us!                        Sponsors     Diamond               Gold                    Humans     Vaxry  [ Lead Developer ]      Fufexan    [  Supporting Developer  ]        NotAShelf    [  Community Manager  ]        VDawg    [  Webdesign and dev  ]         and our  fellow contributors        Links     Wiki     Get started     Hall of fame     Forum     Account       Socials                                                  Hyprland is licensed under the BSD 3-Clause "New" or "Revised" License.   The name "Hyprland" and the logo are registered trademarks of Hyprland Development.   © Hyprland Development 2026.   Stay hydrated         
